Good morning folks.
It is marathon stream Saturday.
Goal is to get a ton a ton of stuff done
today. I've got about an hour right now
before breakfast. I figure that we're
going to just get a couple quick things
done now and uh we're going to sort of
plan out everything for the day and then
after that I take a a quick breakfast
and then I'm back all the way until 5:00
p.m. And then we'll see if I do more in
the evening. I have some other work to
catch up on then, but we're going to get
a good long uninterrupted stream in
today.
So, there are a couple things I want to
do. Uh, first of all, I think we're just
going to fix the RMS norm thing uh that
was missing from C++.
We're going to add that real quick right
now. And then we're going to try to come
up with a plan for the main thing I want
to do today, which is to add a uh a C
native vectorzation backend to Puffer
Lib. And really there are only a couple
things I don't know how to do. Um, and
funny enough it revolves around like
types because we need to have the same
vectorzation work for all the different
ends. That's not too hard. But then also
we need some way to uh configure the
various ends from config like from
config params and that's a little
sketchy and see
but we'll figure it out. Flip the screen
over.
And we will get
Oh, and we also need to do all
But when is it that we can get into our
little debate on how RL is flawed
for robotics? Why do you want to debate
me on that again? Like I'll gladly
discuss it with you. Those like Udowski
style debates are super cringe though,
man.
I'll gladly discuss it with you publicly
as well.
The reason those debates are stupid is
they're not actually conversations.
They're for the benefit of the audience
and you're just basically talking past
each other
and hello Francesco.
Like I think you'll agree with me. Like
do you not think that we can make
robotics way way way better if we just
have fast sims, algorithms that
generally do several times better on
games and let you automate hundreds or
thousands of experiments immediately.
[sighs]
Okay? So I'm not saying that we instolve
everything in robotics. I'm saying we
unblock the field though in the same way
that I've like unblocked the majority of
robot of um RL research outside of like
niche uh like really domain heavy areas
right like RL research is so so so much
easier now than it used to be and we've
made some major breakthroughs that let
us do our experiments super fast that
let us solve problems soda that before
would take months we can just do it
instantly and automatically right
without any fancy algorithms like that
same thing. You apply that to robotics
and you're going to see a massive
acceleration of everything. Now, in a
robotics, you have way heavier
simulators, but like they don't all need
to be as heavy as they are. You can
apply the same sort of treatment
pretty much that
for anything remotely interesting. Bass
sims are not a thing right now for
anything remotely interesting. Yeah, but
that's because people are trolling.
Like I've gone through so many different
domains, right, where people have slow
sims and I've built fast ones,
you know, like we've got our drone sim
that's like millions of steps per
second. Actually, uh, fiber here, FBR,
has built a ton of different little
robotic sims that are super fast.
Sims are the problems. Building better
Sims. Yeah, I agree. But now, like the
RL doesn't just work when you have a
fast sim. If you throw stable baselines
at it or whatever, it sucks. If you
throw RL g like RL games or whatever the
hell the roboticists use. I've seen some
repos with that. It sucks.
So like a lot of what I do in Puffer is
making it easier to have fast sims and
to have this like closed loop for
prototyping stuff as well.
I've been awake validating results. What
results are you on? fiber or FBR
sims are not available for manipulation.
Yeah, I agree. But like this was true
everywhere, man. Like look, even
freaking Breakout and Pong, simple ass
stuff like this was written to be way
slower than it should be. Every single
end here is done from scratch in Puffer
Lib and every single end here is fast.
Oh, you can't do driving fast. It's a
hard problem. Okay, we made the second
generation sim 15 times faster than it
was. Now they're training at a million
steps a second. Oh, you can't do uh my
whole PhD multi- aent thousand agent
training. You can't make that fast. It's
hard. Okay, here's a sim that runs a
million and a half steps per second per
core and is now training at 7 to 800,000
per GPU. Uh and it's going up from there
in 40. It's like, oh, you can't do
drones fast. How about three or four
million steps per second? Like every
single thing I've touched, it's just
like bloat. There's no fundamental
barrier to doing this. Yeah, okay. Like
fancy contact sim and stuff and
robotics, yeah, there's some, but you
have a way, way heavier physics engine
for the vast majority of simulations
than you actually need. You do not need
the same level of fidelity that you have
for a humanoid when you're doing a six
degree of freedom arm. But that's the
standard. Like, there's absolutely no
reason a six degree of freedom arm
should be running at 100k steps per
second or less. It's stupid.
Offline RL is the way. Offline RL is
well, it's just not RL is the thing.
It's supervised learning.
So basically offline RL is the way means
you give up because you couldn't figure
out RL.
And the offline RL data sets are tiny. I
saw like, oh, we have a billion frames
of data. That's nothing. I eat a billion
frames of data in minutes in Puffer Lib.
Parallel time compute with an algo.
But you solved parallel time compute.
What's that mean?
Right. MJX got 50k SPS on GPU. Yeah.
See, exactly. There's no reason it
should be that way. You should be able
to get better than 50k on a CPU core,
single core easily. Easily.
I my generally my approach to everything
is I just assume that everyone is
trolling and things can be made way
better and I'm usually right. So I mean
you can tell me that like no this
specific thing just has to be slower or
whatever but like unless you show me
like yes it takes this many floatingoint
operations which is more than you have
on your CPU or GPU and no you can't cut
any corners like
well but the thing is you're probably
right for all intents and purposes
because I don't particularly intend to
go do a bunch of robotic sims unless we
suddenly get a ton of client inquiries
in that area that really want dedicated
work. It's like one of the interesting
areas out there, but it's not the most
interesting area. And humanoids are
definitely not the most interesting
area. Like industry arms in my opinion
are way more interesting than humanoids.
If you mean like if by interesting you
mean like things that will actually
shape the future rather than things will
that will just shape the image of the
future, right?
What can I do with this measly thing I
have in Puffer Lib? You can train most
of our environments
probably at a million steps per second.
You can do plenty.
That's the cool thing about it. You can
probably still train drones to fly
around in like maybe not 30 seconds, but
in 2 or 3 minutes.
Okay. So, for some reason, these Yahoos
didn't add this to the C++ API.
Can anybody explain to me what this
parameter does in the RMS norm? The
code's kind of weirdly written.
Self.afen
elementwise aen is true.
Why does it make a wait?
This does Does it use group norm?
Oh, no, it doesn't. I'm dumb.
all spaces in time in CUDA.
Wait, we simulate all spaces in time in
CUDA and then we and can get two mil
paths that solve the lowest energy to
goal given set constraints. I have to
look at what you've done. That sounds
cool though.
Yeah, that would make sense that you can
do that.
like compute all paths in parallel and
just see which one's better, but do it
on a GPU.
Probably going to be that' probably be a
really cool demo.
Okay, so this thing does have one
learnable weight.
Did they just not include any of these
in their um
they just not have any normalization
layers at all?
a module.
This is normalization.
Oh, there it is.
Yeah, this is just missing um
just missing a layer norm I guess,
right?
Novel solution that compresses all
states.
Um h
approximate you mean right? There's no
way you compress it exactly to that.
I don't know exactly what you're doing,
man. You always have so many projects.
Why don't you PR some stuff? Like,
finish one of them and PR cool already.
The code standard is like not like crazy
difficult for Puffer, you know? It's
just like write brain dead simple CN and
like PR cool demo and have on website.
Literally, we have new programmers doing
it.
like you've done all sorts of control
things as well.
You get some of them on uh into puffer
by now.
Be a good time.
Think we're going to just do this.
more simply for now because this is such
a mess.
Why do they write their code that way,
man? It's just so gross.
novel solution to compress all states.
H,
that sounds interesting. I don't know
what that is, but that sounds
interesting.
All right, Sarah.
self learning parameter count dimension
dependent lower dimensions searches
lower high dimension selfarning for
optimizers right you're going to have to
like put a clear thing of what on earth
you're doing here because that sounds
like there could be something very cool
but I don't know precisely what you're
talking about like what what is the
thing that you have done sir
good sir
Self-arning for optimizers. Okay. What
does self-learning for optimizers mean?
It's like what does that mean, sir?
Warpad.
Warp Adam.
What is warp atom?
Why? Wait, wait. You say just think
about warp atom like I'm supposed to
know a random one citation paper from
online during training at no extra
compute. Okay. So you think that you
have a better optimizer
or is this like a specific metalarning
thing?
Do you think you have an optimizer that
you can like directly test and show on a
few things in puffer? Is that it?
They do optional params.
Oh, this options thing.
We'll do that after then.
Well, it's none though to begin with.
The brain that controls the optimizer.
The whole metalarning thing was like
adapt to new tasks or whatever, right?
How the [__] is this still?
How the [__] is this thing calling?
I hate the torch code base so much.
The [__] is this? Death RNS RMS norm
return RMS norm.
Where the [__] is the implementation
standard bench? marks
for sklearn. My god, nobody uses skarn.
those benchmarks are like contested on
um by like real real architectures.
No, I need like I need the actual
freaking implementation of this.
Don't I
gamma I okay no so this is sum over I
okay
so we can just Do
X
X * X
Wait.
something like this, right?
Hey, here from Max, why do you think C++
is a terrible language? I'm having to
study for CUDA and Torch
because it takes a good language, which
is C, and then it just arbitrarily bolts
a bunch of [__] onto it.
You have a million bloody ways to do
everything. You have no idea what's
allocating memory. You have no idea
what's fast and slow.
And like ultimately you just confuse the
way that you do anything. So you end up
with people writing [__] tons of C++
code and it somehow being slow.
Like that's very hard to do in C. It's
very hard to like write code that's slow
without knowing why. Um if you're going
to be using a low-level language, the
point of it is you want it to be fast,
right?
So C++ you end up with more complex code
that is also somehow slow and it's
difficult to figure out why it's slow.
Not to mention you just have like gobs
of god-awful syntax because you're
bolting modern features onto like onto
C.
So it really just doesn't do anything
well. Frankly, it has kind of no
redeeming qualities other than the fact
that you can ignore it and write C in
it.
That's pretty much it.
I'm finishing this one thing and then I
get to write C for the rest of the day
which is going to be great.
See you around. I will be back after
breakfast anyways. I'm going to go I
have uh breakfast in 25 minutes and I'm
here all day after marathon stream.
I figured out how to get to working in
popular map and implemented adapts a
learning rate and stuff.
that I did this wrong, right? Like
supposed to be
Wait, did it just like output gobs of
garbage? Yes, it did.
Well, this isn't getting an auto grad.
Seven things it does.
Optimizer
C++. plus traces, right?
That seems fine.
Takes tensor for forward.
this guy.
All right. And if I can go look for a
linear layer,
I hate how you literally can never find
the source code that you're looking for.
in um
you can just never find the source code
you're looking for ever
in in uh Torch.
Okay. So its weight is register
parameter.
Then you do reset parameters.
But this has reset in it.
supposed to just call this.
What the heck is wrong with this thing,
man?
Oh, you dummy. Did I not
tensor forward
and return this?
not get to Yes.
I'd like to get to vectorization.
dude. How is this thing erroring?
Like, how is this thing freaking
erroring
on Mr. layer?
461.
Is there anything else in here?
Tort check fail.
Old tensor.
How does this thing break
like why is this not letting me?
It's like very odd.
Plus+, man.
Okay, so this works.
So are we just not breakpointing
somehow?
Prototyping might fundamentally change
the neural net.
You're going to have to like describe
what the heck this thing is properly at
some point. Man,
I got a quick breakfast in uh like 10
minutes and I'm going to be back all
day.
None.
That's like just massively mixture of
experts. No, you're not running 100 bill
dense.
Okay.
this.
Oh, you dummy.
God damn it.
Why does it error there though? That's
so weird that it errors like there
supposed to be eager mode like
bizarre
Yep, there we go, dummy.
Oh, it is ones.
So, this is supposed to actually work
now.
Doesn't look super amazing yet, though.
does learn.
Maybe there's some differences.
Actually, that's pretty solid. Look at
that right at the end. Yeah, that
learns. That's a full solve of breakout.
Boom. Full sola breakout. Perfect. Just
in time for breakfast. Dip it.
Uh, this is going to be
RMS norm.
No, emnest is a very very toy benchmark
my guy. Um,
welcome Fabio. I I am going to go for
breakfast now. I'll be back very soon,
like probably 30 minutes tops. Uh, I'm
live all day today and I'm going to be
working on the C vectorization back end.
So if you are interested in that, come
back, check that out. Star of the Puffer
on GitHub really, really helps us out.
Uh Discord for getting involved with dev
and everything else is on X. I will be
back in half hour topsish.